Added Java Solution to AtCoder GCD on Blackboard (#2518)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/ac-GCDOnBlackboard.mdx

```

</PySection>

	
<JavaSection>
	
```java
import java.util.*;
import java.io.*;

public class GCDBoard {
	static final int MAX_N = (int) 1e5 + 5;

	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
		BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
		int N = Integer.parseInt(br.readLine());
		StringTokenizer st = new StringTokenizer(br.readLine());

> 		int[] arr = new int[MAX_N + 1];

Reviewer: why can't you do N here

```

</PySection>

<JavaSection>
```java
import java.util.*;
import java.io.*;

> public class GCD_board {

Reviewer: use upper camel case

    static final int maxN = 100000 + 5;

    public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
        BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
        int N = Integer.parseInt(br.readLine());
        StringTokenizer st = new StringTokenizer(br.readLine());

>         int[] orig = new int[maxN];

Reviewer: arr?

        for (int x = 1; x <= N; x++) {
            orig[x] = Integer.parseInt(st.nextToken());
        }

        int[] prefix = new int[maxN];
	// Prefix will find the GCD from the start
        int[] suffix = new int[maxN];
	// Suffix will find the GCD from the end

        prefix[0] = 0;
        suffix[N + 1] = 0;

        for (int x = 1; x <= N; ++x) {
            prefix[x] = GCD(prefix[x - 1], orig[x]);
        }
        for (int x = N; x >= 1; --x) {
            suffix[x] = GCD(suffix[x + 1], orig[x]);
        }

        int ans = 1;

        for (int x = 1; x <= N; ++x) {
		// 'x' is the index we are going to remove
            ans = Math.max(ans, GCD(prefix[x - 1], suffix[x + 1]));
		// Removing index 'x is the same as finding the GCD of everything
		// before it and after it
        }

        System.out.println(ans);
    }

>     public static int GCD(int num1, int num2) {

Reviewer: lower camel case, gcd() instead

```

</PySection>

<JavaSection>

> ```java

Reviewer: looks like formatting got a bit messed up here, make sure you're using tabs, not spaces for indentation

Author: yah..... I'll try to fix it. For some reason, when I push from vsCode or copy directly from the guide editor, the styling gets wonky. Also, it's weird because github tabs are huge and don't indent correctly

Reviewer: yeah one way u can resolve this is by setting indentation on vscode to tabs so you wont get any issues when using vscode

Author: Thank you!

import java.util.*;
import java.io.*;

> public class gcdBoard {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
public class GCDBoard {
```

public class GCDBoard {

> 	static final int MAX_N = (int) 1e5 + 5;

Reviewer 2: remove the +5

Author: I get runtime error if I don't do this

Reviewer 2: ok so
1. remove the +5
2. replace MAX_N in gcdsuffix & prefix with MAX_N + 1

Reviewer 3: or you can replace it with n + 1 :) not really necessary tho, but it'd be slightly faster (?) for smaller test cases

	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
		BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));
		int N = Integer.parseInt(br.readLine());
		StringTokenizer st = new StringTokenizer(br.readLine());

		int[] arr = new int[MAX_N + 1];
		for (int x = 1; x <= N; x++) {
			arr[x] = Integer.parseInt(st.nextToken());
		}
		// Prefix will find the GCD from the start
		int[] gcdPrefix = new int[MAX_N];

		// Suffix will find the GCD from the end

> 		int[] suffix = new int[MAX_N];

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		int[] gcdSuffix = new int[MAX_N];
```

		for (int x = 1; x <= N; ++x) {
			gcdPrefix[x] = gcd(gcdPrefix[x - 1], arr[x]);
		}
		for (int x = N; x >= 1; --x) {
			// GCD for suffix
			gcdSuffix[x] = gcd(gcdSuffix[x + 1], arr[x]);
		}

		int ans = 1;

		// We are going to remove the element at index x
		for (int x = 1; x <= N; ++x) {
			/*
			 * Removing the element at index x is the same as finding the GCD from 0 to x - 1
			 * and the GCD from x + 1 to n - 1
			 */ 
			ans = Math.max(ans, gcd(gcdPrefix[x - 1], gcdSuffix[x + 1]));
		}

		System.out.println(ans);
	}
	public static int gcd(int num1, int num2) {
		// How to quickly find GCD
		if (num2 == 0) {
			return num1;
		}

> 		return gcd(num2, num1 % num2);

Reviewer 2: (optional) condense into ternary

>             return GCD(num2, num1 % num2);

Reviewer: make sure to change these calls to lower case (there are also calls in the main method)

```

</PySection>

	
<JavaSection>
	
```java
import java.util.*;
import java.io.*;

> public class GCDBoard {

Reviewer 3: wait can you use Kattio rather than normal IO

Reviewer 2: not needed

	static final int MAX_N = (int) 1e5 + 5;

	public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
		BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));

> 		int N = Integer.parseInt(br.readLine());

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		int n = Integer.parseInt(br.readLine());
```

Reviewer 2: not needed

		StringTokenizer st = new StringTokenizer(br.readLine());

> 		int[] arr = new int[MAX_N];

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		int[] arr = new int[n];
```

Reviewer 3: do this or put the arrays outside of the main method.

Reviewer 2: use N, but the renaming isn't needed

Author: Ummm, if you use n then the code won't work......

Author: because the for loop goes from 1 to N. Should I keep int[] arr = new int[MAX_N] or int[] arr = new int[n+1]?

Reviewer: n + 1

> 		for (int x = 1; x <= N; x++) {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		for (int x = 0; x < n; x++) {
```

Author: solution doesn't work this way

			arr[x] = Integer.parseInt(st.nextToken());
		}
		// Prefix will find the GCD from the start

> 		int[] gcdPrefix = new int[MAX_N];

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		int[] gcdPrefix = new int[n];
```

		// Suffix will find the GCD from the end

> 		int[] suffix = new int[MAX_N];

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		int[] suffix = new int[n];
```

		gcdPrefix[0] = 0;

> 		suffix[N + 1] = 0;

Reviewer 3: idk how java works but isn't the array already filled with 0s?

Reviewer: yes it is, so this wouldnt be needed

> 		suffix[N + 1] = 0;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		gcdSuffix[N + 1] = 0;
```

		for (int x = 1; x <= N; ++x) {

> 			// GCD for prefix

Reviewer 3: since you're renaming the variable, i don't think this comment is necessary.

			gcdPrefix[x] = gcd(gcdPrefix[x - 1], arr[x]);
		}
		for (int x = N; x >= 1; --x) {
			// GCD for suffix
			suffix[x] = gcd(suffix[x + 1], arr[x]);
		}

		int ans = 1;

> 		// 'x' is the index we are going to remove

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		//  We are going to remove the element at index x
```

		for (int x = 1; x <= N; ++x) {

> 			// Removing index 'x is the same as finding the GCD of everything
> 			// before it and after it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
			/*
			 * Removing the element at index x is the same as finding the GCD from 0 to x - 1
			 * and the GCD from x + 1 to n - 1
			 */ 
```

			ans = Math.max(ans, gcd(gcdPrefix[x - 1], suffix[x + 1]));
		}

		System.out.println(ans);
	}
	public static int gcd(int num1, int num2) {
		// How to quickly find GCD

> 		if (num2 != 0) {
> 			return gcd(num2, num1 % num2);
> 		}
> 		return num1;

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		if (num2 == 0) {
			return num1;
		}
		return gcd(num2, num1 % num2);
```

```

</PySection>

	
<JavaSection>
	
```java
import java.util.*;
import java.io.*;

public class GCDBoard {

>     static final int maxN = 100000 + 5;

Reviewer 2: 1. plz rename to MAX_N
2. make the value just (int) 1e5

Reviewer 2: 2 not resolved

    public static void main(String[] args) throws IOException {
        BufferedReader br = new BufferedReader(new InputStreamReader(System.in));

>         int N = Integer.parseInt(br.readLine());

Reviewer 2: tabs

        StringTokenizer st = new StringTokenizer(br.readLine());

        int[] arr = new int[maxN];

>         for (int x = 1; x <= N; x++) {

Reviewer 2: is 1-indexing necessary?

Author: Yes. In the answer I do prefix[x-1] so I need 0 to be a buffer. BTW, the internal sol for C++ also uses one indexing

		arr[x] = Integer.parseInt(st.nextToken());
        }

>         int[] prefix = new int[maxN];

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        int[] gcdPrefix = new int[maxN];
```
I think this would be a more descriptive var name for this.

> 	// Prefix will find the GCD from the start

Reviewer 3: the indent looks kinda weird here...

        int[] suffix = new int[maxN];

> 	// Suffix will find the GCD from the end

Reviewer 2: put comments _above_ the variable they describe

> 	// Suffix will find the GCD from the end

Reviewer 3: same here

        prefix[0] = 0;
        suffix[N + 1] = 0;

        for (int x = 1; x <= N; ++x) {
		// GCD for prefix
		prefix[x] = gcd(prefix[x - 1], arr[x]);
        }
        for (int x = N; x >= 1; --x) {
		// GCD for suffix
		suffix[x] = gcd(suffix[x + 1], arr[x]);
        }

        int ans = 1;

>         for (int x = 1; x <= N; ++x) {
> 		// 'x' is the index we are going to remove
> 		ans = Math.max(ans, gcd(prefix[x - 1], suffix[x + 1]));
> 		// Removing index 'x is the same as finding the GCD of everything
> 		// before it and after it
>         }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // 'x' is the index we are going to remove
        for (int x = 1; x <= N; ++x) {
                // Removing index 'x is the same as finding the GCD of everything
		// before it and after it
		ans = Math.max(ans, gcd(prefix[x - 1], suffix[x + 1]));
        }
```

        System.out.println(ans);
    }

    public static int gcd(int num1, int num2) {

> 	// How to quickly find GCD

Reviewer 3: same here.

Author: Function indentation might look a little wonky, but could you check please?
